Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says Israel will not agree to
a ceasefire with Hamas speaking earlier
in Tel Aviv he said that would represent
a surrender to Hamas he called the
conflict a battle between civilization
and barbarism he added that even the
most just Wars have unintended civilian
casualties Netanyahu also said he hoped
that civilized nations would back
Israel's
fight I want to make clear Israel's
position regarding a
ceasefire just as the United States
would not agree to a ceasefire after the
bombing of Pearl Harbor or after the
terrorist attack of 911 Israel will not
agree to a sociation of hostilities with
Hamas after the horrific attacks of
October
7th calls for a ceasefire are calls for
Israel to surrender to Hamas to
surrender to terrorism to surrender to
barbarism that will not
happen ladies and gentlemen the Bible
says that there is a Time For Peace and
a time for war this is a time for war a
war for our common future today we draw
a line between the forces of
civilization and the forces of barbarism
it is a time for everyone to decide
where they
stand our correspondent Ben fulan is in
Jerusalem and he told us more about what
Netanyahu
said uh what stood out to me was this
plea to countries to support Israel and
seek moral Clarity in Benjamin
netanyahu's words he said the future of
civilization is at stake uh and went on
to explain that it's not Israel
indiscriminately uh bombing civilians
it's Hamas and Hamas which are using uh
the gazan civilians a million of them
displaced at the moment and seeking
Refuge as human shields in this war mhm
Netanyahu took the stage shortly after
it became known that an Israeli soldier
who had been taken hostage by Hamas had
actually been freed how has that been
received in
Israel well this has been a a more than
a glimmer of hope I mean the first good
news uh in in days this war has ended
its fourth week and it's just been
bloodshed from the terrorist attacks on
October 7 in which 1400 Israelis are
said to have died um the air strikes uh
which Hamas says in the Gaza Strip has
killed over
8,000 people they are unverified numbers
um and then to hear that one of these
hostages has been released so far only
four had been released um and that was
because of medical conditions and
elderly uh person uh includ included and
uh a number uh also killed in
retaliatory air strikes from Israel
according to Hamas so um this is really
the first rescue uh by the sounds of it
uh Israel clarifying an earlier
statement saying that URI madish a
private uh had been released during the
ground offensive uh by Hamas there Ben
fulan with the latest from Jerusalem
thanks for
that and for more we can now bring in
Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan conriquez
he's a spokesperson for the Israel
Defense Forces good to see you Mr kriz
now prime minister Netanyahu
categorically rejects calls for a
ceasefire equating it with calling for
Israel's defeat in the war but what
about a humanitarian pause to help
innocent civilians get Aid and get out
of Harm's Way wouldn't that also be in
the idf's
interest hello good evening and thank
you for having me um it is definitely
our interest to make the best possible
situation for civilians they are not our
enemy and we are not trying to Target
them and in order to do so we are
facilitating together with the Egyptians
and the US and the UN the import of
humanitarian Aid I'm happy to say that
more than
108 trucks of humanitarian Aid have been
provided to Gaza and that there is a
humanitarian Zone declared and
officially established humanitarian Zone
in the southern Gaza Strip all in order
to provide exactly as you say some kind
of support for the Palestinians the
non-combatants but we have to be very
clear any sensation in fighting will be
used by Hamas for their purposes and
that is not on the table I don't see it
on the table what we are focused on is
in know dismantling Hamas and making
sure that this never happens again and
of course bringing back our hostages
yeah just to clarify about that human
humanitarian Aid that is trickling in um
100 trucks have so far since um October
7th been um brought to Gins that is
usually what comes in throughout a day
if I'm not mistaken now I want to get to
something else because Israel describes
the AL shifa hospital as a de facto
Hamas Command Center the UN says
hundreds of people are stuck there and
cannot be moved there is an evacuation
order that the IDF has issued is there a
scenario in which the IDF would consider
refraining from bombing what it
considers valuable military Targets on
humanitarian
grounds yes listen we are very
respectful of protected sites and we
fight according to the laws of armed
conflict we distinguish between
combatant and non-combatant and we are
attacking the combatants full stop
second thing is we it's known and widely
recognized that Hamas uses civilian
infrastructure for their military
purposes which is in direct
contradiction to humanitarian law it's a
crime they shouldn't be able to do that
and the unfortunate situation is that
even though two weeks have passed almost
two weeks have passed since we asked
Palestinians to evacuate Gaza City they
have had lots of time to evacuate also
the shifa hospital if they had been busy
doing it now they're in a situation
where there are still haven't evacuated
and there is significant combat ongoing
that is regrettable and I think that
everybody in Gaza the aid organizations
and Hamas the UN and everybody else
should be busy evacuating people and to
strip Hamas of that human shield which
is the shifa hospital what the UN says
though is that there are people on
ventilators babies and incubators that
just simply cannot be moved and that
moving them would would amount to you
know putting them In Harm's Way in a
different way and and would also suppose
a death sentence but um I want to move
on because your military managed to free
a hostage overnight uh can you give us
any details about that
operation yeah just to finish that last
Point what's really putting them at risk
at Mortal danger is the fact that Hamas
is using it for their military purposes
otherwise we wouldn't be talking about
chifa it it's a protected facility and
we wouldn't have any issue with
regarding the happy news of the release
of private Ori Mish she's with her
family she is well both mentally and
physically and she has been debriefed
and she will be debriefed in the future
she was released by Israeli forces on a
ground operation due to the sensitivity
of the matter I cannot elaborate how how
many people how it was done where she
was held and all of the other very
interesting details what I can say and
read rate is that we are committed to
getting all of our people back not only
or mides but all of the
238 hostages that are being held in Gaza
by Hamas Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan
kriz spokesperson for the Israel Defense
Forces
thanks thank you for having
me